hi everyone welcome to the ipvs core
implementations weekly sync for monday
the 14th of december
i am aching brain i will be your host
we're going to go through all the usual
good things
the high priority initiatives the
upcoming ship releases
pinning services low priority initiative
no other initiatives nothing's low
priority
we're all friends here um uh q a parking
lot fun fun
fun all right let's go uh
first up on our high priority
initiatives are upcoming and ship
releases
who can who can talk about this
now there's some good stuff coming
well i guess so we're working on getting
out um
i go ipfs 0.8 rc2
um to be equipped with some bug fixes
and support for mfs policies
um where you just say hey anytime mfs
updates
please tell the spinning service to
store that for me
which should be pretty nifty um so keep
keep your eyes peeled
yeah and in the lipid2p front and just a
bit
of 30 last week we shipped the rc 0 and
then rc1
with some fixes that we got while trying
to integrate with ibfs
so we are basically now finishing this
integration with ipfs before
shipping the final release uh it's
basically almo almost then
the type check ci jobs are finally green
uh
and i am just missing a test in http
client
which is currently failing and there is
also an issue with the bundle size
that somehow it is way bigger than it
should be
i i was looking into it with google uh
just
some minutes ago and i think we found
the solution but i will
check after the meeting just for the
record
uh libitpio.30 will ship with the
authorly support
type devs in liberty core customize
filter in the custom dialer address
sorter and also discover and connect to
closest peers
and hopefully this week it will ship
super good um
there may be a ipfs release
maybe more news on that when it happened
um moving on uh pinning services
what's going on there
things are you know uh go up 250.8
rc one went out with with basic support
for
pinning services um and
mfs support coming soon and
uh iraqi can talk a bit about the state
of
the js client for that yeah so
i updated the js http client
to reflect the changes that we end up
doing to the
api last week i think
some tests are in place as i was using
writing more tests i discovered some
edge cases that are not working in rc1
i report the bugs i'll be adding more
tests
this week
that's it yeah
just like to finish this up on the
iphone's web ui front
uh uh rafael is back and we'll be
switching to the
uh http client uh with
those new commands added by iraqi we
will
probably tag a new web ui release where
support for remote pinning is not
enabled yet
but all the unrelated improvements
are present and include that in 0.8
and if we are lucky we may switch
that pull request to the version with
pinning services if not we will
probably not include it in a version of
web ui that's like hard coded with
go ipfs and include it in the next
version or maybe we'll do a patch
version
depending how long it takes for
us to fix all the bugs if there will be
more
release candidates than two we'll see
yeah i suspect whether you know we may
end up with more rc's just
if we're if we end up finishing certain
you know certain things ahead of other
ones like we finish mfs stuff before web
ui is ready
and things like that um
yes next up is local pinning which is
uh which is is done is in or at least
storing pins in the data store and go
ipfs is done
uh it is in 0.8 rc1 seems to be working
fine
download try it out see if it does
anything weird for you
um feedback from any anyone who is
having problems previously
yeah yeah so we're yeah some folks that
um
at pinata who have like a bajillion pins
are gonna try
updating this week i think and and let
us know how it goes
uh should be like a humongous impact for
them because
the number of pins they have is like
insane um
uh yeah there we may come back to
so this this issue may be you know maybe
closed for now or we may
reopen it when we are ready to implement
the
[Music]
a local pinning equivalent to the remote
pinning
commands in go ipfs with things like
named pins and stuff like that that
people have been looking for
still figuring out where on the priority
list that's going to come for
uh you know the next quarter
cool name pinning will be pretty useful
i think for everyone
uh next up is pens and duplicate pens
also extremely useful
next up is data transfer speed
improvements
yes um i actually added this i don't
know if it
qualifies as a high priority initiative
but they're two people who are working
on it dedicated so i'm
assuming it's relatively high priority
um uh
so uh just the quick highlights we
shipped a
plan for uh uh what would the work we're
doing um
and we also shipped a new version of go
grassland which included a couple
little fixes mostly for falcoin um this
week we are going to be focusing on some
grassland internal best
benchmarking and then um we're going to
be starting to
fill out this like test suite that we're
going to be using to measure
our improvements that we can deliver uh
around um bit swap and crossing mixing
as we move towards hopefully much better
data transfer speeds um
so yeah uh there's a more detailed
version of this update that goes
out by email to some people if you are
not on that list and want to be on that
list you can uh
message me and slack and i watch
cool that's all i got
i'm radical uh next is js improves
discoverability and connectivity
yeah so i started the nutrition last
week on the renewable basically
i started refactoring the client api
now we are we basically the client will
receive
the renewable server multi-others from
liberty config
instead of what i was doing before which
basically was
trying the renewable protocol in each
node that would
connect to us and it would be more in a
way of
each node could be a rendezvous server
but we don't want to go in that way so
i simplified a lot the client with this
and i also
added types to to the rendezvous
open pr and up next i intend to
get a garbage collector in the data
store and get a follow-up on the
rendezvous message signing
so that for the start of january i hope
to get
this new iteration ready for review
that's it
awesome um i'm on next bi-directional
streaming and streaming errors in the
browser
um so uh if there are no more uh
objections i think i'm gonna ship this
uh kind of experimental
but it's gonna be really good uh it's
been on the cards for a long time
been talking about it for ages and i'm
just gonna ship it um
that's that i mean ship it see what
happens
um it's gonna hopefully unlock a bit of
the dht stuff as well because a lot of
that is streaming and the thing that
like first actually put me onto these
errors not working was
trying to make a dht query with a
timeout and just being like oh cool
it just returns the number of like
results it got in that time period
and they did it on the command line it
was like oh why did i exit with a
non-zero error code
um so you know that's going to be
interesting
uh no actual update on the dhc stuff the
uh nat manager
made all the changes that have been
required um i guess
it's punted to one which seems fair
enough
um alex
i i do have a preview draft or whatever
the github posted
for that pr if you want to wait for the
longer yeah i
promise i'll finish it yeah if you can
finish it soon because it's now been
open for a month i know
um and it would be good to have it not
open anymore
and it is experimental so we can make
changes
um that is the end of the high priority
initiatives
uh moving on to the other initiatives uh
file ad progress and web ui
uh know update by the looks of things uh
typescript integration
yeah so in the lipid2p site uh the first
iteration
we typed fc is now completed it's it
will go in
0.30 it basically has the lipid peak car
with type devs and we will uh going to
add more in the other modules like with
no priority because
it's not the user api so we'll not
have a big priority on that
right so there's a couple more
um prs on the data source for data store
fs
data store level the test ground sdkjs
is also adding types
and i'm currently working on the on the
ipfs repo
since i already did all the data stores
that repo depends on so
yeah check the the issue uh where
everything
is tracked if you do a pr please
add that to this issue so we can
track everything and we also have a
markdown document with some um
susan rules and
overall documentation on how to do the
types
and yeah that's it
cool next up budget to support no update
not reversal no update unix of sv 1.5
and go ipfs
no update guy prefers gc improvements
uh waiting for some uh feedback on the
design and ready to move forward with
that
as soon as we i get some feedback from
people who have been submitted to
uh but other than that no updates
great um that's it for the other
initiatives uh
so moving on to the other items so
design review proposals
if you've got something to propose a
design review for
if you'd like to propose something that
needs a review of the designer
uh stick it on the list ah just tying
myself in nuts
anyway uh yes stick a thing in that
section of the uh notes
boxes lots of pr's yes
i will do those while i'm waiting for
iraqi to finish his review
of my pr how about that quid pro quo
uh questions do we need a new cid stuff
given we'll be migrating to multi-format
cid sometime soon
ah yeah so am i on unit yeah so
last friday i think we had i don't know
a little bit of
dumpster fire with something changing
and then breaking other things
and i'm not sure it is worse doing those
kind of updates to cids
that don't really change anything but
like implementation wise
but then can cause the issues given that
i think we'll migrate to multi
format cid um
and i think it's not just the ids like
generally the things that are will be
replaced by multiformats maybe you
should try
not to change those as much given that
we will have to change them again soon i
think another one was multicodex that is
being discussed
to over the weekend or so
so in the parking lot there's that issue
that you opened on jsippfest so i did
reply to that issue this afternoon uh
basically saying
like breakage is gonna happen
when we change things without releasing
them with the right version numbers
all right that's just that's going to
happen um
we should move to the new multi formats
now that we're kind of doing our q1
planning
for next year it's a good opportunity to
block off some time to actually do that
work
um you know if we get if the nod comes
from the ipld team that these things are
now ready
for use because previously they've
they've said well
ipfs you're like the biggest consumer of
this thing we're not we're not ready yet
um if the ipod team are ready and can
give us some support
in integrating it then we should look at
blocking some time as
part of our okrs for q1 next year to
actually do this migration
because it's going to be big like i
don't think it's going to be as simple
as
just swapping out the cid module because
it touches everything
yep and doing that is going to take
coordination across
lots of teams with lots of people um you
know it's going to be
similar like it's going to be similar
but not as bad as i think away
but now we should block some time off
and do that
what do you think um and i just wonder
with the usage of uh yes modules and
export maps because that
could start big
breaking changes and issues and bugs
with bundlers and weird stuff so yeah
we need to be careful because we didn't
uh move to a pack five yet
when we do that we plus export maps from
multiformance uh that will start to
break
i think just multiformats actually does
you does work with the older stuff too
the
stuff that they publish on npm does
go through the older classes too maybe
these are the things that we need to
bottom out right sure um
[Music]
maybe i can talk a little bit about the
next item which is you kind of mentioned
already which is so i
wrote a kind of proposal and i think
alex you said you responded to i have
not
seen it yet uh in terms of
how we can approach to adopting new cid
and specifically i don't think we can
we can just dump the existing cid and
say like don't use it anymore
we need some sort of migration paths
there too because it's not just
us our users and that kind of leads to
the other items that
i ended edit there which kind of
can we adopt the process in terms of
making breaking changes that has a
migration past built into them
because it's really hard to tell people
like to keep breaking things and not
giving the room
for the users to do like to plan for
those changes
because right now it's the choice is
either you update to the new version
or you stay behind because there's not
no middle ground i feel like
having some deprecation time frame would
allow
for them to plan uh and maybe
accommodate a bunch of things that they
need to do
at some point um i'm happy to
write a plan how we can approach it and
i think you're right i think that's a
good thing to aim for
but i mean the case of last week was
that the
the release went out with the wrong
version number
okay right things should not just break
and there's no release plan that will
pay you for that
sure i i'm not saying it's gonna save
there but like
i think we will as we will be migrating
two new cids we'll have to
think how do we duplicate old one
with a new multi-formats proposal
there's the same thing like
doing some renaming even if we just bump
the version i don't think that's enough
i think we need a
transition phase where we can guide how
to do the transition and
allow some name like specifically i
proposed in that issue but
you can have old names and new names at
the same time and all names can say hey
we're deprecated
so they show up in editors they dump
warnings they tell what to rename to
and tell you when it will go into effect
and be removed that way teams can plan
their changes without having to stay on
the older version
and sometimes they can't even stay on
the older version because some other
dependency requires new versions so you
can end up in this thing
yeah i mean like ipfs will require the
new version
so if that sounds good i can write a i
don't know document
like a markdown and maybe we can stick
it into somewhere and
whenever we are doing breaking change we
can point in the pr like
can you follow this guide or something
along those lines
so we have the contributing guidelines
maybe it should go
in there cool like how about i write it
and submit it for the
review and you can all
provide the feedback that sounds good
okay
sounds good cool thank you so note like
some of those deprecation paths are
going to need to be
different depending on the scale of the
breaking change like we may do
you know longer period of time for
deprecation support um
but like a lot of that depending on the
feature set that's needed to change
should we should clarify what the path
the update path is and the deprecation
items in whatever issue that is
so for example if we're transitioning to
multi-formats
and this is going to be a huge breaking
change to the code api
then clarifying what that timeline and
path looks like for support
in this specific issue and then making
sure we're doing appropriate
blog and uh forum announcements
that that's that's coming and people
need you have three months or six months
or whatever time frame to update
oh sounds good a path forward
uh i think that's it i think that's
everything um
thanks for coming everyone please do
fill in your weekly updates
oh wait andrews go yes there is one more
update it's more of an
internal concern than an external one
but it's sort of exciting news at least
for me
the migrations have been completely
refactored
and i'm finishing up the last prs that
consolidate all the code between the
ipfs update uh
ip go ipfs the automatic updater inside
of that
and what was fs repo migration so it
knows how to
see exactly which individual migration
binaries to download
knows how to download from our
distribution site and knows how to apply
them and revert
and so all that gets consolidated into a
nice little library and we don't have
the
massive and ever uh update binary
anymore
um so just uh getting those last all the
testing in for that library and
um otherwise it's mostly done so i think
we're gonna have some
a lot easier time with his migrations
and the only thing that's left to do is
some
website work to make sure the uh
distribution site
has a few more directories in it which
shouldn't be too much of a
problem so i just wanted to yeah i know
this is this is really nice especially
um
yeah if anyone wants to guess the the
size of the latest fs repo migrations
binary
um feel free to to post in the chat
we'll see who gets closest
you will underestimate probably
um it got the point where yeah this
cannot go
any further this must be fixed so it is
is uh
it's there so we'll have that in
theoretically we could have it for this
release but i don't think that's
realistic given that
that we're already in rc2 so
keep going eric
that is sick oh my god yes
um
200 megabytes has been guessed maybe 400
for the people who don't have the text
dean says about 350 that's big that's
big that's almost as big as node forge
yeah i think i'll publish system
requirements just to upgrade
crazy it's better just to one of these
upload their
their repo first and then we'll upgrade
it forward
have you considered storing it in the
cloud instead i've heard this there's
this thing called file coin maybe you
could uh save some hard drive space by
using that
yeah it's gonna require final points
towards if we didn't fix this anyway
it's
it ends here so
cool that's great uh yes so thank you
all for coming everyone this has been
the ipfs core implementations weekly
sync
for monday the 14th of december 2020
be safe happy holidays see you
in the future on the internet bye